yeah i'll just go through some slides
here
and then if i have time i'll show you
some terminal stuff
um let me talk about arable first kind
of what we're doing and
and why we're uh doing this work with
with weather data
yeah so arbol is um we do these
parametric agreements for
various different kinds of businesses so
think like
you know in agriculture which is a very
classic use case for this think
a beet farmer wants to get paid if
they're uh
if it didn't rain enough in their in
their farm area during
the growing season um and and this is a
this is a very small but existent
space in the u.s and we've actually
captured a lot of that business so far
in in the us agriculture
but we're also expanding out into a ton
of other
very interesting markets uh shipping and
logistics so you know
if uh if if there's a storm um
a shipping company might want to get
paid if that happens
uh you have construction you have
energy for uh for you know wind and
solar and even
um uh electrical utilities
um vacation rentals anyway the list goes
on
uh but the point is that we're doing
these weather agreements
and it's a very very very underserved
space
even in the us and and very much
globally
um here let me flip slides uh
yeah so this kind of talks about uh the
existing kind of problems with the
industry
um it's just very old school right lack
of access
millions of farms businesses are
excluded because current minimum policy
sizes are too high
it's quite expensive um pricing is
opaque
high transaction fees and it's all
summed up here really our business is
crafting and distributing
parametric weather contracts uh that
payout based on global weather
data sets um it's important to know that
this is
similar to insurance but it's not quite
insurance you can think of it as uh
being like insurance except you know
it's a little more
um it's based on data there's not you
know on the ground assessment that's the
main difference
okay so if we're going to be doing these
uh agreements that pay out
based on weather data um we need to get
the good weather data so
there are a number of very good projects
happening uh and that that have been
happening
for the past decade or so run by
scientists and academics and governments
these are just some screenshots of a few
of the different projects
uh here we have noah on the left
second from the left is chirps which is
uh
uh climate hazards infrared interpret uh
interpolated
uh precipitation stations yeah it's a
funny acronym
but that data set is generated by
interpolating
weather station data with infrared
satellite
readings uh and then they they use a
whole bunch of
very advanced methods that are great and
then they post it to
ftp this is a screenshot of where you
can get this
right along with the good old ds
underscore store
uh you know uh the point of this slide
is sort of to show that some of these
like hosting infrastructures are not
great and
getting to ipfs as kind of the answer to
that but i don't want to in any way
uh you know really
depreciate the quality of these projects
they're great and
like we email with these guys all the
time and they're
you know but they don't they aren't
great at hosting
so you know here's uh era5
uh this is a great project they actually
have a lot of stuff here but their api
is like super slow
um this is prism
uh another uh another interpolated data
set which you can get over uh
over ftp as well so these are some of
the problems with the current uh
weather data that's out there and by the
way this applied you know these these
issues are kind of focused toward this
parametric use case but
they really apply to everyone i mean
data scientists who are crafting
government policy
um scientists who are studying climate
change
i mean these these weather data sets uh
are are global
and they are a global resource and
they in my view like the
just importance of them is not really
matched by the you know
attention that is paid to uh how they're
made available so i'll just go through
this list here but with some of the
problems
um the formats are idiosyncratic so you
know all four of these different
projects and also
the other ones that exist have different
formats you have to kind of learn what
they're doing
um through their documentation endpoints
can be slower on available and that
makes it hard for us
to uh to build production systems you
know we can't really hook directly into
these sites because often they're just
down
[Music]
so old data is revised without a log of
changes yes so
uh you know one thing with these
interpolated data sets is that you get
your satellite data
right away you know and then station
data kind of trickles in over time
and what these folks do is they just
edit the old data so you know i have a
post from a month ago i'll just
update it as the news agent comes in and
prism actually
does six revisions once per month uh
for every data point so that just become
and it's not tracked so that just
becomes a huge problem for
us and really anyone who's trying to get
you know exact numbers there
um data is not securely hosted so
i mean you know these guys i mean this
isn't
that they're not trying to like lock
this down from attack because why would
anyone attack it but you know
i mean if we're going to be building up
this
uh this parametric space uh sorry guys
but you know that might
that might end up happening um and it
should be secure anyway
um and finally chain of custody for
interpolated data sets is not well
documented so i mentioned that you know
these interpolated sets have inputs and
where the inputs come from well
you know let's that would be great to
have more information about that
deweather this is our answer this is a
this is a project that
uh we've been working on for a month or
two
or three or perhaps four it's hard to
keep track of time frankly these days
uh on that scale but um
this is our answer to weather data so
very succinctly what it is is it's you
know decentralized weather so
uh take all the all the really good
weather data
and put it on ipfs and uh we have a
client library that i
just published to uh pie pie
last night that can be downloaded and
installed and if we have time i'll show
that
um pip install de-weather underscore
client
and that's also on our github so that's
exciting
uh so i'll just kind of run through how
this kind of solves those uh
those problems i i showed in the
previous slide
so there's all this ingestion code and
that stuff
standardizes things so you can just say
give me a prism give me chirps give me
uh
you know noah cpc whatever and it'll um
it'll return all those in the same
format and it will return them in
data structures that make sense for your
language so in python
this de-weather library does uh
you know dictionaries that we also a lot
of our data science team use
uh numpy pandas so this data frame
object um use an available and reliable
hosting uh hosting infrastructure i
think that was supposed to be
so you know let's not have downtime
let's not have really long weights
let's also have a uniform api for
accessing everything right not
you know a different endpoint for every
data set
track all data set revisions so you know
with prism with those six
revisions we just take every revision
and we just have six different data sets
and you can just get whichever one you
want
and that makes it possible to balance
timeliness with accuracy
so you know with our use case it's like
if we're doing a prism
contract we'll usually go with a payout
at the
30-day revision and that gives us you
know certain amount of accuracy and a
certain amount of timeless
using immutable data store data is
secure once posted so this is a real
ipfs thing here um
having you know uh uh
weather data um be
addressed with the cid system uh is a
big deal because it
it really makes it much more feasible to
to do these you know automated payouts
where you're just pulling a cid and
and that's it there's no disputes
there's nothing it just kind of
cuts out that that link in the chain um
create a mechanism for tracking data
input data sets
so this is kind of getting actually this
is past the weather this is getting into
uh d climate which is uh you heard it
here first that's going to be a very
ambitious project which is going to use
ipfs as
its backbone um more on that later
that's
another talk i suppose and make it open
source we want to bring the scientific
community on board we want to give
grants to these
entities to uh to to
incorporate this into their pipeline so
they can post directly and
and just everyone can have a great time
you know i think ipfs really
is a great match for
uh these collaborative like you know
scientific and academic
projects because you know everyone is
contributing
um and why why shouldn't the hosting be
uh be distributed as well
all right so this is my info uh we are
hiring uh if this is interesting to you
uh shoot me a resume uh
if you want to come write ipfs code if
you want to do some
you know if you want to help help me
manage this open source project we have
about
15 people right now uh working at arbol
and and we're rapidly expanding